GRILL THEM INTERVIEW — A.W. Puma Home Services
Owner: Albert Puma
Date: 2026-03

---

THE STORY & PASSION (The "Why")

Q: Can you tell me the origin story of your company? What was the specific problem you set out to solve, or the "aha!" moment that led you to start this?

Albert: "I mean, to be quite frank, money. Sure. I thought, again, I know that's not like the textbook answer or what you were saying. Yeah, being honest, that's what it is. I saw that there was an opportunity in the market. There were a lot of big companies that are doing what we're doing, and a lot of what we saw, which is just God's honest truth, were private equity, big conglomerates purchasing these home service companies and running them into the ground, not really giving a crap about the customers. So on top of obviously the money thing, there was an opportunity there to be the local company. Even now, if you see it, most of those companies you hear about are big guys that are owned by private equity or some other company, venture capitalists, all that stuff. So a more personal feel, a little bit more of a personal feel. A small, local-owned type vibe is what we're going for."

Q: What gets you out of bed in the morning to do this work, especially on the most challenging days?

Albert: "Even on the most challenging days, people need what we do. Bluntly, people need what it is that we do. I'm not talking down on other trades or anything, but you don't need a kitchen remodel, you don't need a bathroom, you don't need new floors, you don't need a new deck per se. What we're doing is a service that everybody actually needs. Day in and day out you're providing a service that is a basic necessity to be able to thrive and to live."

Q: If you had to explain your passion for this company to someone in just one minute, what would you say?

Albert: "For me, I just love creating things and watching things grow. It's always exciting starting a new business, going to something new. It's learning everything. It's learning the systems, learning the product, learning what your clients need, what they like. Ultimately it's exciting to grow, to create something from nothing and grow it. It's exciting to watch something go through the challenges of creating something from nothing, overcoming those challenges, and ultimately putting together a team like with you and Andrew, with the installers, and watching something grow that was just an idea two years ago."

Q: When was the company founded?

Albert: "Formally it was August 2024. That was when we started doing anything. That's when I filed the LLC. For the first three months, up until November, we only had an electrician on and he was the one doing work on our construction projects. Then we brought a plumber on in late October or early November. And then in the beginning of 2025, January or February, we brought on an HVAC technician."

Q: What problem in the market made you start the HVAC company?

Albert: "For me it was a nightmare ever trying to find an HVAC company to do any sort of work. It was almost like they were this unicorn. Every time we looked for an HVAC referral through our network, through other subcontractors, nobody happened to know anybody. And the exceptions of that were unreliable fly-by-night guys. It just seemed like it was next to impossible to get good reliable HVAC help, not just on our projects but in general. Even when I subcontracted a job, the HVAC guy I had, I paid him a deposit. He showed up, last minute changed the machine brand, then ran off with our money and only partially refunded us. Because quote-unquote he wasted his time removing the machine, even though it was his fault for trying to pull a bait and switch. So our experiences with HVAC companies were few, and of the few they were not good. So we saw that we could fill that missing piece and be a good reliable company."

---

COMPANY VALUES & MISSION (The "How")

Q: If you had to boil your company's core values down to three words, what would they be and why?

Albert: "First one I would say is integrity. We're far from perfect, but when we do make a mistake we take accountability and do what we can to make it right. We'd be lying if we said we bat a thousand every time. But the difference between a good company or a great company is taking accountability for what we do whether good or bad and having the opportunity to correct it and make it right. Second word I would say is professional. We're not just looking for the cheapest help. We're looking for people that are experienced and care about what they do. That's what makes a true professional. Not just somebody that knows what they're doing, but somebody that cares about what they're doing. You're going to have top quality talent in your home that cares about how they're doing the installation and the customer experience. Third word I would say is honesty or transparency. We're never going to try to sell you something you don't need. We'd love for you to replace your whole system versus repair, but we're not going to sit there and tell you that you need to replace your whole furnace because the control board is junk. We're always going to be transparent about what we're doing, why we're doing it, and lay our cards out so you can make the best decision."

Q: How do these values translate into real action?

Albert: "That's how I've taught the service guys. Tell them the truth. For example, hey listen your control board is fried. It's going to be $2,000 to replace because your machine is obsolete and they have limited stock. Personally this unit is 15 or 20 years old. I wouldn't put more money into it. I would suggest replacing it. Right now the control board isn't sending a signal. It could be a secondary issue too if we replace the control board. But we need the control board running to diagnose the issue. So being transparent and never trying to sell someone something they don't actually need."

Q: What is a principle you would never compromise on for short-term gain?

Albert: "Integrity. You don't really have integrity if you compromise it. The whole point is you're consistent with what you do even when the going gets hard."

Q: When you think about your company's legacy, what do you want to be remembered for?

Albert: "I'd love the company to be remembered as something that was started from absolutely nothing. Even my backstory. I grew up in government subsidized housing. When I was a kid we were evicted from our apartment in New York City, which is why we moved here. I've been relatively successful building the first company also from nothing. On a personal level that's what I'd like my legacy to be remembered for. That I was able, obviously with the right people in place, to build something big from nothing."

---

THE CLIENT (The "Who")

Q: Describe the clients you typically work with right now.

Albert: "The typical client I have found is hiring us out of necessity. The typical consumer isn't someone trying to stay ahead of things. It's not someone saying hey I want to change my furnace because it's 15 years old but still working. The typical client is someone that has a need and has a need now. They're typically, I don't know if I want to use the word desperate, but in a sense they are because they need something done now. They have elderly parents, they have kids, or some reason why they need it fixed immediately. Quite often they're not informed. They don't know what they're looking at. They don't know the difference between the types of systems. They don't know what's available in terms of replacements or alternatives. So they're generally uneducated and uninformed about HVAC."

Q: Describe your ideal client.

Albert: "The ideal client already knows what they want, but they're also teachable. A great example is a Newton client, Jeff Cal. Him and his partner came in knowing exactly what they wanted and where things were going. It was an easy sale because they already knew what they wanted. But they were teachable. They were set on Mitsubishi and I was able to tell them if that's what you want I'm happy to do it, but here's why Samsung is better in my opinion. So the ideal client is educated on products, knows what they want for the most part, but is still teachable and flexible."

Q: What is the typical system setup your ideal client currently has?

Albert: "I'd say heat pumps, so kind of a pretty even split between mini splits and ducted systems depending on whether the home has ductwork. Ideally it's a ducted system that we're converting to a heat pump. Ducted systems are easier and quicker and cost less to install compared to mini splits. So the ideal client has a ducted furnace and AC system that we convert to a ducted heat pump."

Q: What geographic areas tend to produce your best clients?

Albert: "Brookline, Cambridge, Newton, Chestnut Hill, Wellesley. That whole region is a wealthier type of clientele. People that generally want the best systems for their homes."

Q: What problem is the ideal client facing right before they need someone like you?

Albert: "What I've seen is an old system breaking down. A lot of these homes are older homes in those communities, so they have older systems that break and they want something now while still being energy efficient. There is also a demographic that wants to get rid of fossil fuels completely and switch to something more environmentally friendly."

Q: What type of customer is not a good fit for your services?

Albert: "We don't really get into large scale commercial projects like hospitals. We just don't have the bandwidth for that. On the residential side, someone looking to install a mini split in one room of the house. Usually those people think because it's one or two heads it's going to be super cheap. They don't understand there's a minimum cost to set everything up and get people involved. So people that are more price sensitive than value based are generally not a good fit."
